# M1 AHU Vibration Analysis Scripts

The script `calc_m1ahu_fr.mlx` combines a state-space model representing the GMT's structural dynamics, the mount axes feedback controller transfer functions, optical sensitivity matrices, and rejection transfer functions to obtain the frequency responses between AHU force (and torque) inputs and segment tip-tilt and piston, and corresponding wavefront error at the exit pupil. The goal is to provide a transfer function matrix representing the telescope's sensitivity to forces applied to nodes at the M1 AHU (air handling units) locations. The script saves in `G_20251110_1617z30zeta<.>pct_ahu_fr_var_<X>.mat` the frequency response from the M1 AHU vibration force inputs to the segment tip-tilt and piston at the exit pupil for each observing mode: `H_NS_ttp`, `H_NGAO_ttp`, and `H_LTAO_ttp`. The suffix `_var_<X>`, where `<X>` is a number, indicates variants of the frequency response data calculated at different frequency points. One can also save the state-space model matrices in `G_20251110_1617zeta<.>pct_ahu_ss.mat`. The script to calculate the M1 AHU frequency responses relies on the following data files:
- `odc_fdr2023_z30_o`: It provides a struct object "o" with mount subsystem models, including the mount controller transfer functions.
- `lom_tt_dt` and `D_seg_piston_dt`: Those files provide linear approximations of the transformations from the M1 and M2 rigid-body motions to segment tip-tilt and piston at the telescope exit pupil.
- `modal_state_space_model_2ndOrder`: The file contains the telescope structural dynamics model represented in the second-order modal form. The variable `modelDescription` provides a detailed description of the model.

The script `m1_ahu_vib_analysis.mlx` aims  to quantify the impact of the M1 AHU loads on the wavefront error. The script also provides analysis plots, such as power spectral densities (PSDs) of optical metrics. The analysis is based on the PSD of M1 AHU vibration loads. The current outputs of the script cells consider the data file `ahu_psd_1KHz_1400rpm.mat`, generated with the auxiliary script `proc_ahu_lc_dt.mlx`. **Remark:** the live script `m1_ahu_vib_analysis.mlx` relies on `calc_m1ahu_fr.mlx` to calculate the telescope frequency response at the same frequency points as those in the AHU vibration PSD data (`ahu_psd_1KHz_1400rpm.mat`).
